RQ 1.1 How did the number of attacks change in relation to the increase of remote work? 15
out of 81 (19%) reports reviewed in the first SLR showed that increase of remote workers had a profound 
impact on the numbers of cyberattacks which e.g., drastically increased VPN attacks with 610% during 
2020 [93]. Nuspire revealed an increase in attacks against Fortinet's SSL-VPN systems by 1919% and 
1527% increase of attacks on Pulse Connect Secure VPNs during first quarter of 2021 [95]. 44% of the 
companies surveyed by Zscaler witnessed an increase in exploits targeting their VPN since adopting to 
remote work [8].
The increase of remote work changed the VPN security landscape and caused a lot of turbulence 
when the quick transition occurred. Many organizations were not prepared for the huge remote work 
transition. This led to a wider attack range for all cyber adversaries that took advantage of every single 
mistake, misconfiguration, vulnerability, and unsecure home network they could find in order to conduct 
cyberattacks. 
Cyber company Mandiant mentions that there might also exist more reasons for the increase in 
attacks on VPNs [9]. They believe that threat actors recently realized the potential of getting access to 
VPN networks. That it takes only one exploit or stolen credential to put an entire private network at risk, 
which makes it ideal for cybercriminals to target remote users. This could then have been a motivating 
factor, along with the remote work migration, which resulted in the significant increase of attacks against 
VPN systems.
RQ 1.2 Which tactics and techniques are used by threat actors? 45 out of 81 (55%) reports
reviewed in the first SLR showed that the total cyberattacks skyrocketed with 75% increase in daily 
cyberattacks and, at times, 300% during the shift to remote work [91] [126]. Our results also show that 
many advanced persistent threat (APT) groups, that might be supported and sponsored by states, have 
had espionage missions targeting healthcare organizations, governments, and research institutions that 
for instance developed covid-19 vaccines [9]. This study shows that no one or nothing is completely 
safe on the internet and any device can at any time be misused and turn the user into a victim of 
cybercrime. In some cases, this occurs without the knowledge of the user, and it can take a long time 
before the attack is detected and resolved.